#labels Featured
==DDI - An Ontology for Drug Discovery Investigations==

The goal of DDI project is to develop an ontology for the description of drug discovery investigations. The Pharmaceutical industry is an information based industry. The aim of DDI is to add value to the information generated in the drug pipeline by making the information easier to reuse, integrate, curate, retrieve, and reason with. DDI aims to follow to the [http://www.obofoundry.org/ Open Biomedical Ontologies Foundry] (OBO) [http://www.obofoundry.org/crit.shtml principles], to use relations laid down in the [http://www.obofoundry.org/ro/ OBO Relation Ontology], and to be compliant with Ontology for biomedical investigations ([http://obi-ontology.org/page/Main_Page OBI]).

=== What is DDI? ===

DDI project is composed of two major parts:

'''Part I''' - an initial stage: development of an ontology for the description of lead discovery investigations (LDI) led by the [http://www.aber.ac.uk/compsci/Research/bio/robotsci/ Computational Biology Group] at [http://www.aber.ac.uk/ Aberystwyth University]. We have developed, through use of a Robot Scientist and in consultation with industry, the top levels of an open source Lead Discovery Ontology. This formalises the most important entities and relations in the development of leads.

LDI was funded by BBSRC UK ( [http://www.bbsrc.ac.uk/ Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council] ) (grant BB/E018025/1).

'''Part II''' - we extend LDI to DDI which will cover research and development phase of the drug design process. DDI will help enable the scientific knowledge generated in drug discovery experiments to be more explicit, help detect errors, enable the sharing and reuse of common knowledge, and promote the interchange and reliability of experimental methods and conclusions.


We also invite researchers from both academia and industry to join DDI project in order to participate at the next stage of the ontology development. 

DDI is funded by BBSRC Follow-on funding pathfinder scheme (grant BB/FOF/PF/13/09).

==Download==

DDI is currently in [http://www.w3.org/TR/owl-features/ OWL] format. Since it is under development, DDI may change frequently. The most updated version is always available for download at [http://purl.org/ddi/owl http://purl.org/ddi/owl] (it is recommended to use [http://protege.standford.edu Protege ontology editor] to open OWL file). Alternatively, by using [http://pellet.owldl.com/ontology-browser/ OwlSight] OWL web browser, it is easy to browse DDI from your web browser. 

For more details, see

* [[DDI:Browser]]

==DDI contributors==

Da Qi, Larisa Soldatova, Andrew Sparkes, Amanda Clare, Muhammed N. Khan, Ross King, Andrew Hopkins, Richard Bickerton, Wilma Keighley, James Hudson.

==Publications==

Qi, D., King, R. D., Hopkins, A. L., Bickerton, G. R., Soldatova, L. N. (2010) An Ontology for Description of Drug Design Investigations. Journal of Integrative Bioinformatics. Special issue for International Symposium on Integrative Bioinformatics 2010.
(Submission was accepted on 20/01/2010) [http://users.aber.ac.uk/ddq/ddi/wiki/images/2/2b/Ddi_jib2010.pdf Download the paper here.] 
 
==Contact==

If you have further questions, please contact [mailto:lss@aber.ac.uk?Subject=DDI%20Enquiry Dr. Larisa Soldatova] or [mailto:ddq@aber.ac.uk?Subject=DDI%20Enquiry Dr. Da Qi].